# Math 4610 Fundamentals of Computational Mathematics Assignment 6

**Routine Name:**           Routing

**Author:** Raul Ramirez

**Language:** C++, this code can be compiled with g++ compiler or gcc.

The best way to compile this program is to use **make**, it is far too large of a program to type these into the command line one by one. The best way to compile is to use `Make`, for example:

    make release

These will give you executables named **release**. You can then run the program by typing **./release**

**Description/Purpose:** This is more of a multi-directional program. This program will compute Matrix and Vector Product, and Matrix and Matrix products. 

Matrix and Vector Product will take an n by n matrix. This time, the user can specify the dimensions of the matrix manually, however, the size of the vector x, is equal to the size of the row of the matrix, A. A will be generated by random doubles and filled in. The same rule applies to the vector x. The matrix will then multiply the vector in the fasion Ax=b, and the vector b will be returned.

Matrix and Matrix Product will take an n by n matrix. The user here must specify the dimensions of the matrix and must follow the rules of matrix multiplication. If the columns of the matrix, A, do not match the rows of the matrix, B, then the user must input correct dimensions and will be asked repeaditly to input the correct dimensions. The matrix A will then multiply the matrix B, and the result will be stored in a Matrix C.

**Input:** Depending on the program running, the user will be presented with the following menu:

```cpp
void printMenu()
{	
	std::cout << std::endl;
	std::cout << "Please enter a program to init: " << std::endl;
	std::cout << std::endl;
	std::cout << "  1 ------ Matrix-Vector Product" << std::endl;
	std::cout << "  2 ------ Matrix-Matrix Product" << std::endl;
	std::cout << "  3 ------ Print this Menu Again" << std::endl;
	std::cout << "  4------ Kill the program" << std::endl;
	std::cout << std::endl;
}

```

The Menu is pretty straght forward.

**Output:** Depending on the program runned, you will get multiple outputs. Matrix-Vector Product returns a Vector, Matrix-Matrix Product returns a Matrix.

**Implementation/Code:** There is a lot of code to show, this is main.cpp:

```cpp
#include "mxv.hpp"
#include "matrixProduct.hpp"

#include <iostream>

void printMenu()
{	
	std::cout << std::endl;
	std::cout << "Please enter a program to init: " << std::endl;
	std::cout << std::endl;
	std::cout << "  1 ------ Matrix-Vector Product" << std::endl;
	std::cout << "  2 ------ Matrix-Matrix Product" << std::endl;
	std::cout << "  3 ------ Print this Menu Again" << std::endl;
	std::cout << "  4 ------ Kill the program" << std::endl;
	std::cout << std::endl;
}

int main()
{
	//============ Class Initialization =================
	MatrixVector a;	
	MatrixProduct b;	
	//============ User Input ===========================	

	int input = 0;	
	printMenu();
	std::cin >> input;

	while(input != 4)
	{
		if(input == 1)
		{
			a.initProgram();
			printMenu();
			std::cin >> input;
		}
		else if(input == 2)
		{
			b.initProgram();
			printMenu();
			std::cin >> input;
		}
		else if(input == 3)
		{
			printMenu();
			std::cin >> input;
		}	
		else
		{
			std::cout << "Sorry, that wasn't an option, try again: ";
			printMenu();
			std::cin >> input;
		}
	}

	return 0;
}

```
mxc.cpp and matrixProduct.cpp is the same as the previous assignment, the difference being they are now parallelized by using Open MP. They run very fast and there is no longer an output due to the size constraints of the terminal. Computer matrices of 2000 x 2000 only takes about 16 seconds to compute.


This code has been explained in the description in great detail.
**Last Modified:** October/2017
