# Math 4610 Fundamentals of Computational Mathematics Software Manual Exam Entry

**Routine Name:** Exam 1

**Author:** Raul Ramirez

**Language:** C++ with the help of the boost libraries. The first problem can be compiled with gcc.

**Description** This routine was to cover the first exam by Dr. Joe Koebbe. We were asked to complete problems out of the text book for the class as a part of the in class portion of the exam. We were asked to complete problems 21 and 23 from chapter 3, problems 5 and 7 from chapter 4, problem 2 from chapter 5, and problems 17 and 18 from chapter 5.

**Implementation**	Problem 1 was a rather interesting problem to look at, although, I personally am not sure if it was implemented correctly. I used the Boost library to help me minimize a function to see where it converges to. It used the function `brent_find_minima()` which takes a function, the interval to smooth down, bits of precision, and an iterator which was set to 4000. The first function was given as `sin(x)`. This converged to -0.544021 after 10 iterations. The second function was given as `-sin(x)/sinx`. This converged to -1 after 10 iterations as well. Again, this did not seem entirely correct as it was unclear what the book was asking, and it made me realize that I needed to be reading along while the class had been going.

Problem 2 asked us to Determine if the magnitude of A^-1 was the same as the magnitude of A, with the inverse on the outside of the magnitude scope. My gut reaction tells me no, as the magnitude of A inverse will be different than taking the magnitude of A first, and then taking the inverse of that. I believe that this problem is false with the pretense that the magnitude can vary in a matrix. I did not understand what problem 2.7 was asking me and this again, was my fault for not reading along the book while class was going. It also most likely did not help, that I had not attended some lectures when we had been discussing these problems.

Problem 3 I have never been good at writing pseudocode. This is one of my greatest weaknesses and I wish I knew how to get better at it since I struggle so much with it. I seem to be able to implement pseudocode just fine, however, when it comes to writing my own, I struggle. If I had to give my best shot I could explain it a little better using English. For column 0 in our Matrix A, select the top position and 0 everything out. For each column after that, follow the diagonal and repeat. Once you have reached the nth position in your matrix, begin to 0 out everything above your diagonal pivots and row exchange if you need to. I am honestly not sure what part b was asking for. I do know, that there were be a lot of work that will need to be done, I can possibly see if there were to be a triple nested for loop on why we would have an issue with how we obtain n^3 for computations.

Problem 4 is something that I looked at for so long and had to conceded defeat. I have honestly no idea how to start on this problem at all. There are a lot of words in here that are very intimidating to look at such as tridiagonal systems of equations. I understand the program is to use Gauss-Jordan elimination, however implementing it was something I was not aware if it was easy to do. I did not think looking on the internet for an implementation of Gauss-Jordan would have been appropriate, so I did not bother to look at it. This is something that is my fault for not showing up to class and has made me realize that I need to be showing up for classes when I have exams that depend so heavily on it. 

**Concluding Thoughts** This exam would have been a lot less difficult had I been reading along with the book for the length of the class period. Playing catch up with the book now will take a severe toll, but it is better to start in the middle of the class lecture now. I also have realized that not only is it disrespectful to you as the professor for me to not show up, but it also very cost effective since I am paying for the classes and I miss out on valuable class time. I thank you for giving me so much extra time on this portion of the exam and I apologize for not getting this done sooner.
